# STAT145-FINAL-PROJECT
This is my final project for STA-145. I researched the education level and reported salary of each U.S. governor in all 50 states from 2000 to the present day, 2025. I am seeking to find out if the respective education level of each governor holds an effect, or is associated with, the amount of salary each governor earned while in office. 

# INSTRUCTIONS
To access and utilize the script, open the "STA145-FORTUNE3.R" file, which contains the code for my project. To access the dataset, open the "data.csv" file. The script can be imported into RStudio.

# DATA
The data collected for this project was the reported salary of each U.S. governor in each of the 50 states from 2000 to the present, 2025 during their time in office. The main goal of this analysis was to see if their education level effected how much income they earn, or if income is the unrelated to their education level.

# OPERALIZATION
Education level was operationalized as a qualitative, ordinal value. Each value follows the standard hierarchy of the American education system. There is no specific degree required to be governor, so we kept our values mutually exclusive & exhaustive. Our code begins with a completed high school diploma at the lowest level & increases by each potential degree that follows: Associates, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, & Law Degree. Doctorate accounts for research-based PhDs, while Law Degree accounts specifically for Juris Doctorates. We also included an Honorary Doctorate as a value, which represents any achievements a governor may have earned from their university. Honorary Doctorates are diplomas that recognize only achievement; they are not a formal level of education. There is no reported history of any governors from 2000 or beyond who did not earn any diploma at any level, so we did not include this as a value in our code.  

Salary was also operationalized as a qualitative, ordinal value. Our range of salaries is both mutually exclusive & exhaustive for any potential salary a governor may earn. The lowest value starts at $106,000 (income typically estimated for U.S. citizens in the upper 20%) & accounts for any & every potential salary lesser than. Each value following increases in range by $36,000. The highest value ends at $214,000 (income typically estimated for well-off U.S. citizens in the upper 5%) & includes any & every possible income greater than. We also included a value for any governor who did not take their earned salary. These governors may have instead donated their salary or dispersed it back into their respective state. Each variable has the same number of values because if our variables prove to have a relationship, we may expect each ascending education level to fall into a certain ascending bracket of income level. To operationalize the salary of the U.S. governors since 2000, we used Wikepedia as our primary source for information. We recorded each governor's cummilative salary reported at the end of their term. When salary information was not provided by Wikipedia, we sourced from the National Governor’s Association or public income-records.
